# Recursion

[0. She locked away a secret, deep inside herself, something she once knew to be true... but chose to forget](./0-puts_recursion.c) - Creating a function that prints a string, followed by a new line. The function should be similar to `puts()` function. Since, we are learning **recursion**, we can use `putchar()` like function which only prints one character at a time. However, instead of looping through the loop to print all the characters of the string, we call the function recursively to print all the charcters of the string. Our **base case** will be where the `*s == '\0'`, meaning we have reached the end of the string.

[1. Why is it so important to dream? Because, in my dreams we are together](./1-print_rev_recursion.c) - Creating a function that prints a string in reverse order, using `_putchar()` and recursion. This time, we will not print the characters before calling the function recursively, instead, we will call the function recursively and then print the values printed by each recursion starting with the most latest one, which happens to be the last character. The last character of the string will therefpore be printed the first, and hence we have a reversed string.

[2. Dreams feel real while we're in them. It's only when we wake up that we realize something was actually strange](./2-strlen_recursion.c) - Creating a function that returns the length of a string. The function is similar to the `strlen()` function. For any string passed, we can check whether the character using **pointer arithmetic** is equal the terminating character, and if so we return a 0. However, if thats not the case, the function will return the count which is always set to `1` as every character accessed using the pointer arithmetic has a length of 1. Then the function will call itself recursively, adding 1 every time until the pointer s will point to the null character signifying the end of the string. This is our `base case` of the function, where the function stops calling itself. The function will add all the values return at each call and return it as the length of the string.

[3. You mustn't be afraid to dream a little bigger, darling](./3-factorial.c) - Creating a function that returns the factorial of a given number. If the number passed is lower than 0, the function should return -1 to indicate an error, and the factorial of 0 is 1. This can be done by calling the function recursively, with the `base case` as the factorial of 0, then we can return the number, and call the again but with `n - 1` until `n`-1 == 0` whose factorial is 0. Here the function stop calling itself and adds all the return values of each function call and returns them as the fctorial of the number that was passed.

[4. Once an idea has taken hold of the brain it's almost impossible to eradicate](./4-power_recursion.c) - Creating a function that returns the value of `x` raised to the power of `y`. If `y` is lower than 0, the function should return -1. The function is a recursive function where it returns `x * _pow_recursion(x, y - 1)` which signifies the times x is mulplying itself to. The function after checking the base case which is that `y ==0`, then the function stops the recursion and gets the product of all the return values for each recursion and then return them as the power.


[7. They say we only use a fraction of our brain's true potential. Now that's when we're awake. When we're asleep, we can do almost anything](./100-is_palindrome.c) - Creating a function that returns 1 if a string is a palindrome and 0 if not. A string is said to be palindrome if it remains the same on reading from both ends. A single character or an empty string is also a palindrome by default, and therefore in the function if `str_len <= 1` we return 1. If the first and last character are the same, we create a copy of the string to avoid memory access violations, by first allocating a memory block using `malloc()`.  After copying the str to the new memory block, we change the last character to the null character `'\0'` so as to get the second-last character as the last character in the next recursive function call which will be called with the next pointer pointing to the next character. Afterwards, we are deallocating the temporary memoly block using the `free()`.


[8. Inception. Now, before you bother telling me it's impossible...](./100-wildcmp.c) - Creating a function that compares two strings and returns 1 if the strings can be considered identical, otherwise return 0. s2 can contain the special character `*`. The special character can reolace any string (including an empty string).
