# Variables & Conditionals

[0. Positive anything is better than negative nothing](./0-positive_or_negative.c) - In this task, our aim is to check whether a integer is either positive or negative. To do so we will use the `if else` condition to check whethet a random generated integer is greater than 0 thus positive, if less than zero, it is negative and otherwise it is equal to zero. The integer is saved to a variable and then used.

[1. The last digit](./1-last_digit.c) - Here we are generating a random integer and getting its last digit. To get the last digit, we can perform an arithmetic operation using modulus, `%` operator. This operation gives the remainders when you divide 2 numbers. In our case to get the last number, will take `n%10` and this will give us the digit. We can then apply some conditions to this digit using `if..else`. Remember the result for the modulus operation is stored to a variale and then used in the conditions.

[2. I sometimes suffer from insomnia. And when I can't fall asleep, I play what I call the alphabet game](./2-print_alphabet.c) - We want to play with alphabets. i.e print them in the screen but we have been restricted to using `putchar`function only. `putchar` can only display characters alone but not a string of characters. Also we can only use this function a max of 2 times in our program. How will we print all the alphabets then? Ooh wait! we can do some looping! Let's do a while loop, We will declare a variable and intialize with all alphabets as a string. Will initialize `i` as the starting value of our loop, and loop until we reach the last character of our string, which is `length_string - 1` since our looping starts from 0. Toget a single char from a string, we can use `stringName[index]` syntax using our string.

[3. alphABET](./3-print_alphabets.c) - In this task, we will print all the alphabets in lowercase just as we have done above here, but we'll also add all the alphabets in uppercase. Similary, we are required to only use `putchar` and therefore we must do a loop. We will thus do two loops, one for the lowercase alphabets and the other for the uppercase. However, it would be worthing noting that if we use the same index variable to loop through the lower and uppercase alphabets, we must reassign the variable 0 after the first while loop is done. Otherwise the uppercase will not be printed since the condition `i < alphabets_len - 1` will be false at that moment.

[4. When I was having that alphabet soup, I never thought that it would pay off](./4-print_alphabt.c) - 
